=head1 NAME 

PLUTO - PL/SQL Unit Testing for Oracle

=head1 DESCRIPTION

PLUTO is a light-weight PL/SQL-based unit testing framework for Oracle.  The
framework is loosely based on the popluar JUnit framework for Java development.
PLUTO takes advantage of Oracle's Object-Oriented development features and
offers a base object from which custom unit test objects can be derived.

The core of PLUTO is consists of just two objects: one nested table that is
used by the PLUTO_OBJ to pass around testing procedure names and then the 
PLUTO_OBJ itself.

PLUTO provides one primary 'public' procedure: run_tests.  This procedure looks
at your object's inheritance chain and pulls out all of the procedures that
are named like 'STARTUP%', 'SHUTDOWN%', 'SETUP%', 'TEARDOWN%', 'TEST%'.  It
then runs these as you'd probably expect:

=over

=item * all startup procedures are executed only once at the start of the run

=item * all shutdown procedures are executed only once at the end of the run

=item * all setup procedures are executed once before each test procedure runs

=item * all teardown procedures are executed once after each test procedure runs

=item * all test procedures are executed once

=back

For an example on how to write your tests, check out the C<examples/> directory.

=head1 INSTALLATION

Installation is easy, just navigate to the base directory of this uncompressed
archive and run:

  sqlplus @install.sql

The user that you install PLUTO as should have a few privledges, specificially
'create session' and 'create type'.

    SQL> create user pluto identified by pluto;
    
    User created.
    
    SQL> grant create session to pluto;
    
    Grant succeeded.
    
    SQL> grant create type to pluto;
    
    Grant succeeded.

That should do the trick.

If you want to run the test suite, you'll need a few more privledges.

    SQL> grant create table to pluto;
    
    Grant succeeded.
    
    SQL> alter user pluto quota unlimited on users;
    
    User altered.

=head1 LICENSE

All source in this distribution has been released under the GPL Version 2 
and the Artistic License.

=head1 DISCLAIMER

This code is distributed as-is with no warranty, actual or implied.

=head1 SUPPORT

This software does not come with any official support; however, bug reports,
suggestions, and patches are welcome.

=head1 AUTHOR

Josh McAdams 
Contact via gmail.com address: joshua.mcadams+pluto

=cut

